---
title: Open Day 2024
layout: post
---

Details for those interested in participating in Open Day 2024

<!--more-->

On February 24th, IISc will be opening its doors to the public for a special event showcasing our cutting-edge research. This is a fantastic opportunity to share your passion for science and engage with a diverse audience, including middle and high school students as well as fellow researchers.
 
We have decided on a set of experiments that can be presented. As a member of Ensemble, we encourage you to consider participating in this event by presenting an experiment, demonstration, or interactive exhibit. This is a valuable chance to:
Develop your communication skills: Explain complex scientific concepts in an engaging and accessible manner.
Gain valuable experience: Hone your presentation skills and gain confidence in public speaking.
Make a difference: Inspire the next generation of scientists and share your enthusiasm for research.
Network with professionals: Interact with researchers from various fields and gain insights into different research paths.
 
As a new initiative, we will select one proposal from you. We are particularly interested in proposals that are:
Engaging and interactive: Capture the audience's attention and promote active participation.
Clearly explained: Communicate the scientific concepts in a way that is understandable to a diverse audience.
 
If you are interested in participating:
Please submit a proposal outlining your planned presentation through this form: (https://forms.office.com/r/dyfAqDNmm3)
The deadline for submissions is 9 Feb 2024.
 
We will contact selected participants individually.

We encourage all members to consider this exciting opportunity to represent Ensemble and contribute to a successful event. Your participation will play a crucial role in showcasing the vibrant scientific community at IISc and igniting a passion for science in others.